Version 9.06.0 main changes:
* Include all bugfixes and changes from GPL version 9.06

Version 9.05.0 main changes:
* Include all bugfixes and changes from GPL version 9.05

Version 9.04.1 main changes:
* A lot of changes from releases 9.00, 9.01, 9.02, 9.03 and 9.04 of GPL-Ghostscript,
	notably in color management, see the file doc/History9.htm for complete
	list of changes and bug fixed.
 
Version 8.71.0 main changes:
* A big security update from upstream was included,
	r11351(Adding -P- and -dSAFER to many POSIX shell scripts, win32 and OS/2
	batch scripts; bug 691355) and r11352(observe minst->search_here_first
	condition in file search; bug 691350), plus SEARCH_HERE_FIRST=0 by default
	enabled in current dev tree.

* A new configure option is available: --enable-safer-default
	This option allow to have gs SAFER mode enabled by default. If you need to
	have a less restrictive gs with this option, you need to add "-dNOSAFER" to
	the gs command line. This mode isn't the default for now but after testing
	with the option enabled, the next release will see this option ON by default.

* Update some last files with the new LICENSE statement for a real complete
    GPL V3 release.

* Make libpng and libtiff hard dependencies because compilation failed without it.

* Changes included from the 8.70 version from Artifex:
    This release fixes a large number of issues with transparency, especially
    as it interacts with color space conversion, mask contexts and patterns.
    There have also been a number of significant fixes to font handling,
    especially when generating PDF. And there are numerous robustness,
    correctness and performance improvements.

    New generic Esc/Page devices, eplmono and eplcolor were added to the
    contrib directory. A new cdnj500 device was added to support the
    HP DesignJet 500.

    The licensing of the Free version of the core Ghostscript code has been
    changed to GPLv3 or later. Previously, the core code was GPLv2 only.
    Ghostscript can now be used with GPLv3 applications, and can no longer be
    used with applications that are GPLv2-only.

    This release also includes security fixes addressing CVE-2009-0583 and
    CVE-2009-0792.

* Changes included from the 8.71 version from Artifex:
    It features improved handling of fonts, nesting and color fixes with
    transparency objects, reduced memory footprint for the halftone cache,
    as well as improvements to the pxl output devices, and the usual number of
    bug and robustness fixes.

    New in this release is an experimental project file for Microsoft
    Visual Studio. This wraps the normal nmake build, and makes it easier for
    developers to get started building Ghostscript with that compiler.

    Support for tiff file output is now provided using the libtiff
    implementation rather than our more limited native code as in previous
    releases. There is also a new 'tiffsep1' output device which produces
    halftoned separations at 1 bit-per-pixel, in contrast to the 'tiffsep'
    device which produces 8 bit-per-pixel plates.

    Support for using FreeType as a type rasterizer has been greatly improved.
    We do not recommend its use as of this release, but it is much more
    functional than previously and our intent is that it will become the
    default in a future release.

    The graphics library has been updated to provide more accurate scan
    conversion of vector art including fixes to dash behavior, transparent
    stroked paths, thick stroked paths, radial shadings, xps cap handling,
    "pie" joins, degenerate beziers, improved handling of dropouts in thin
    strokes and better thin axis-aligned strokes. 

Version 8.64.0 main changes:
* Approximately 100 bugs have been fixed since version 8.63.0. 
	Of particular note in this release are improvements to overprint and spot 
	color support in documents with transparency, improvements to PDF and PS 
	output, proper handling of PDF-specific text rendering modes and support 
	for reading AES-encrypted PDF documents.

* Also improved is handling of CJK text, especially in vertical writing modes, 
	memory footprint processing some files at high resolution and support for 
	using the system's default paper size on unix.

* The interpreter's handling of color spaces has been moved from PostScript 
	code to C.

* A number of the included printer drivers and cups wrappers have been updated 
	to support a PDF-based workflow. Also fixed are several long-standing bugs
	in the pcl drivers with respect to duplex, resolution and paper tray 
	selection.
* In this release they are one incompatible change:

	- In this release the C source files have been split into two new 
		directories. Interpreter source files are now in psi and the graphics 
		library and output devices are now in base. Previously everything was 
		in src. This may cause problems with existing references in external 
		build files or when applying patches generated against an older version.

Version 8.63.0 main changes:
* Approximately 238 bugs have been fixed since version 8.62.0. 
	Of particular note are robustness and performance improvements with large
	files, invalid PDF, and font handling.
* The major new feature of this release is multithreaded rendering. This can
	be requested by passing -dNumRenderingThreads=n on the command line. The
	input document is first parsed, and then each page is split into n bands
	which are rendered concurrently. This can provide a significant reduction
	in processing time on multi-core systems.
* Images are now always interpolated in their source colorspace. This improves
	correctness for XPS documents and avoids bypassing the custom color
	management callbacks for interpolated images. Interpolation and color
	management are both expensive operations, so this affects performance with
	large images. The effect can be positive or negative depending on the file
	and the target resolution. If performance is a problem, we suggest running
	with -dNOINTERPOLATION.

* Support for OpenPrinting Vector devices has been upgraded to version 1.0.

* There are two new devices in this release, both experimental. Behdad Esfahbod
	has contributed a cairo output device which uses the cairo graphics library
	to generate PDF, SVG, EPS, or PNG files, based on the requested filename
	extension. The svgwrite device directly outputs Scalable Vector Graphics,
	the W3C XML vector graphics format. Both support only vector art at this
	point; text and images will not be represented efficiently.

* 3 incompatible changes in this release:
	- The maximum number of color components has been reduced to 8 (from 252) 
	as a performance improvement. Eight is the largest number commonly used and
	the largest number for which we support continuous tone images. Users with
	special needs can restore the previous behavior by setting the
	GS_CLIENT_COLOR_MAX_COMPONENTS preprocessor symbol to the required number
	of components at compile time.

	- The -Z: debugging option now uses 'realtime' instead of 'usertime' when
	reporting timing information on unix-like systems. This has always been the
	case on windows-like systems.

	- Obsolete makefiles for the DesqView environment have been removed.

Version 8.62.0 main changes:

* numerous bug fixes  and improvements:
	- COMPILE_INIT=1 fixes from release 8.61
	- tiffsep device can use more than 8 colorants
	- faster shadings, overprinting and transparency
	- fix some compatibility issues in PDF/A produced with pdfwrite device
* fixed bug #20270 by patching src/gdevxini.c to avoid cropping issue in gv

Version 8.61.0 main changes:

* numerous bug fixed
* use of x11alpha for default driver if X11 is available, falling back to
  bbox otherwise

Version 8.60.0 main changes:

* merge of drivers and other patches from ESP Ghostscript
* include the cups driver from ESP Ghostscript
* The X11 device is now modularized on Linux and Solaris systems 
  when built with GNU ld
* include numerous important bug fixes over the previous stable 
  version, as well as improvements to performance, memory footprint, 
  shading and image handling
* use of bbox for default driver output, no more the x11 one.

Version 8.57.0 main changes:

* bug fixes, performance and quality improvements in the areas of
  patterns, shading and image filtering
* implementation of the Well Tempered Screening algorithm in an 
  output device, using Graeme Gill's IMDI library for efficient 
  color mapping.

Version 8.56.0 main changes:

* include all bugfixes and changes from GPL version 8.56
* change the version numbering convention, add a patch number
* add DMP printer drivers and ppds, thanks to Sahaya Darcius
